Document release-notes process (#802)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/development/contribution-guide/_index.en.md

Prior to releasing, the release manager will verify that there were no changes on the stable branches since the last release candidate.
This ensures that no bugs could have been introduced to possibly affect the stability of the released version.

> The new version will be announced per the [announcement guidelines] in the release process documentation, and a new
> [release notes](#release-notes) section for the new release needs to be published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new version will be announced per the [announcement guidelines] in the release process documentation, and
[release notes](#release-notes) for the new release will need to be published.
```

Additionally, a retrospective meeting for the last release cycle will be held.
There will be no dedicated [test day](#test-days), as the release candidate has been tested and no changes have occurred since.

##### Release Notes

[Release notes] should be published for each GA version.
All new features and bug fixes of the release should be labeled with `release-note-needed` and have a relevant release note

> documented inside the issue / PR.

Reviewer: So exactly how is this going to work, technically?

To me it makes most sense to keep as files inside some directory, e.g. `release-notes` or `doc/release-notes`.
This way they won't conflict with each other when cherry picking.
This option lends itself to automation quite nicely.

Another option is on the PR itself *but* if the PR gets reverted later it would be hard to identify which could leave to mismatching notes. Granted, it's a low possibility of this happening, but not zero.
This option would be rather harder to automate, but possible.

Reviewer 2: > To me it makes most sense to keep as files inside some directory, e.g. `release-notes` or `doc/release-notes`. This way they won't conflict with each other when cherry picking. This option lends itself to automation quite nicely.

+1 to using a separate files. I think this is what openstack follows 
https://github.com/openstack/neutron/tree/master/releasenotes/notes
Sample PR: https://github.com/openstack/neutron/commit/c16f88d1481f59e8547c406ac24b670723a3b1da

Reviewer 3: I'm fine with a `release-notes` directory. That would help with multi-branches and backports/reverts.

Another option is just to send release notes directly to the website, not have an intermediary step of writing them in the PR. If the `release-note-needed` label is present, automation could enforce that a commit message includes a link to a website PR.

> documented as part of the PR. The content of the release-note should be in a file under `release-notes`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
documented as part of the PR. Release notes submitted with PRs should be written in individual files in the `/release-notes` directory of the relevant repository.
```

Should we stipulate something about the naming of release note files (`NNN-description`)? Should we stipulate something about formatting (txt vs yaml with some well-known scheme?)

Reviewer: For now I've been writing them as plain text files, with a sensible name.

I think we need to see how that works out and refine from there in the future.

Reviewer 4: A monotonically-increasing prefix would be useful to make it obvious which release notes are relevant (or at least, which release note snippets are so old they can’t be relevant, without looking at the commit metadata where they were introduced; this would also allow easy clean-ups). If we make it the issue number, that would also ensure that release note items correspond to an actual issue (bug or enhancement request) ;-).

Regarding the content, I think plain text is fine, as @mkolesnik has been doing recently. Perhaps we can document it as being Markdown snippets.

Reviewer: > A monotonically-increasing prefix would be useful to make it obvious which release notes are relevant (or at least, which release note snippets are so old they can’t be relevant, without looking at the commit metadata where they were introduced; this would also allow easy clean-ups). If we make it the issue number, that would also ensure that release note items correspond to an actual issue (bug or enhancement request) ;-).

Possibly, but issue number is a bit problematic since the issue might be something in enhancements, and thus not really telling.

I'm not sure we expect anyone to read them from here though, so not sure how valuable it would be to have a way to identify old notes.

> Regarding the content, I think plain text is fine, as @mkolesnik has been doing recently. Perhaps we can document it as being Markdown snippets.

We could have them be `.md` files and then they'll be linted automatically (though we'll probably want to link them with `MD041/first-line-heading/first-line-h1` off).

Reviewer 4: > I'm not sure we expect anyone to read them from here though, so not sure how valuable it would be to have a way to identify old notes.

I don’t expect anyone to read them from here either; all I was after was avoiding an ever-growing directory of files. We could hand-wave it all away by saying automation will deal with that, but if we can have an easy-to-use human-compatible approach that enables that too, all the better IMO. A date-based prefix would do the trick too.

Reviewer: Yes I think date prefix YYYYMMDD would make sense and help with your expectation too

> documented as part of the PR. The content of the release-note should be in a file under `docs/release-notes`.

Reviewer: I've put recent release notes simply under `release-notes` directory.
If we go with `docs/release-notes` we'll need a PR to move them.

Reviewer 3: Just `release-notes` seems good to me, as we're not planning on putting any other docs there.

Additionally, a retrospective meeting for the last release cycle will be held.
There will be no dedicated [test day](#test-days), as the release candidate has been tested and no changes have occurred since.

##### Release Notes

[Release notes] should be published for each GA version.
All new features and bug fixes of the release should be labeled with `release-note-needed` and have a relevant release note
documented as part of the PR. Release notes submitted with PRs should be written in individual files in the `/release-notes` directory
of the relevant repository. The release note file name should be prefixed with a date in the format `YYYYMMDD` and end with a `.md` suffix.
The content of the file should be a Markdown snippets.

> Once a week, as part of the tasks and bugs triage meeting, the team will make sure that new bugs / tasks / PR's are properly

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once a week, as part of the tasks and bugs triage meeting, the team will make sure that new bugs / tasks / PRs are properly
```

labeled and have the release notes documentation. When the version is ready for GA, all the notes can then be gathered

> from issues / PR's using the `release-note-needed` label and a [pull request to the website repository] should be opened.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
from issues / PRs using the `release-note-needed` label and a [pull request to the website repository] should be opened.
```

Also, so far I think we've been following the pattern with backports and looking at the presence of `release-note-needed` and the absence of `release-note-handled`.

We may want to actually link to the relevant query:

https://github.com/pulls?q=is%3Apr+user%3Asubmariner-io+label%3Arelease-note-needed+-label%3Arelease-note-handled+

Author: That's a good point, I'll add a query to include both PRs and issues:
https://github.com/pulls?q=user%3Asubmariner-io+label%3Arelease-note-needed+-label%3Arelease-note-handled+

Additionally, a retrospective meeting for the last release cycle will be held.
There will be no dedicated [test day](#test-days), as the release candidate has been tested and no changes have occurred since.

##### Release Notes

[Release notes] should be published for each GA version.
All new features and bug fixes of the release should be labeled with `release-note-needed` and have a relevant release note
documented as part of the PR. Release notes submitted with PRs should be written in individual files in the `/release-notes` directory

> of the relevant repository. The release note file name should be prefixed with a date in the format `YYYYMMDD` and end with a `.md` suffix.

Reviewer 5: This needs to be clarified better as:

1. It only mentions the suffix. What should be prefix? Branch name? Issue/PR number? Any descriptive text?
2. What date should be used for `YYYYMMDD`? Date release note is added, PR was first pushed or milestone/release date the feature will be available?

Author: Thanks for you comments, I'll add them to the PR.
1. The rest of the file name is a short description of the PR / release notes added.
2. The date should be the date the PR is first pushed.

> The content of the file should be a Markdown snippets.

Reviewer: Should we mention the files should have `<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->` comment?

Otherwise the `markdownlint` fails because of missing main header

Author: Sounds good to add this

> The content of the file should be a Markdown snippets.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The content of the file should be Markdown snippets.
```

> Once a week, as part of the tasks and bugs triage meeting, the team will make sure that new bugs / tasks / PRs are properly

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once a week, as part of the tasks and bugs triage meeting, the team will make sure that new bugs / tasks / PRs are properly
```

Add a space or it all clumps up into a single paragraph.

labeled and have the release notes documentation. When the version is ready for GA, all the notes can then be gathered
from issues / PRs using the `release-note-needed` label and a [pull request to the website repository] should be opened.

> After that point, a `release-note-handled` label should be added for the issue / PR. The [following query can be use to identify pending]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that point, a `release-note-handled` label should be added for the issue / PR. The [following query] can be use to identify pending
```

> After that point, a `release-note-handled` label should be added for the issue / PR. The [following query can be use to identify pending]

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
After that point, the `release-note-handled` label should be added to the issues / PRs. The [following query can be use to identify pending]
```

Should a bug be identified during a test day, it should be labeled with an appropriate `testday` label.
{{% /notice %}}

> ### Release Notes

Reviewer: It would make more sense to nest it under "General Availability" as it only pertains to GA releases

> For each GA version, [release notes] needs to be published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Release notes] should be published for each GA version.
```

[Submariner project]: https://github.com/submariner-io
[triages tasks and bugs as part of a weekly meeting]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ICvOBOUpIEI45Yqcjf26Z1e5mZNzYsEN-H7_3xx54jI
[Project Members]: https://submariner.io/community/contributor-roles/#member

> [release notes]: https://submariner.io/community/releases/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Release notes]: ../../community/releases/
```

[Submariner project]: https://github.com/submariner-io
[triages tasks and bugs as part of a weekly meeting]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ICvOBOUpIEI45Yqcjf26Z1e5mZNzYsEN-H7_3xx54jI
[Project Members]: https://submariner.io/community/contributor-roles/#member
[Release notes]: ../../community/releases/
[pull request to the website repository]: https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-website/pulls

> [following query can be use to identify pending]: https://github.com/pulls?q=user%3Asubmariner-io+label%3Arelease-note-needed+-label%3Arelease-note-handled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[following query]: https://github.com/pulls?q=user%3Asubmariner-io+label%3Arelease-note-needed+-label%3Arelease-note-handled
```
